okay welcome to gui and in your browsers
for
6th of october i've been told um
yep so this week we got
a short show and tell section
where we'll be highlighting some
changes that landed in web ui and
are going to land in go ipfs
and all around the gui stuff
so the first one is
web ui 2.11.2
which landed with context menus and
improved
text file previews rafael do you
code that locally or should i like
share my screen oh i don't have it
locally
right now do you have it if you have it
yeah yeah yeah so i
i can show it one second
yeah so
here we can you see my screen yes yes
it should be a web ui so this is my test
folder in web ui
when i have interesting files
so web ui 2.11.2
soon to be shipped and even improved
with ipv6 desktop but for now
it restores uh context menus
on directories and breadcrumbs so here
you can right click and you got the full
context menu here same here on the
directory
the context menu is here and i believe
the the kind of cool thing is that we've
improved text file preview
so there was a bug where you are not
able to preview file you have to
download it through this button
and now you can see entire file
if it's small enough right so this is a
small text file
and you can see the entire file however
here i got
uh one of works of toy story
and it's a three megabyte of
plain text and you can see
by the scroll bar like it's long
but then it's not even like entire thing
so this is the improvement we've did
uh you may have really really big text
files
and this has uh it's a practical uh
practical uh use because people may
store or share uh log files or other
stuff
type of text uh up and only data where
it's really really big like hundreds of
megabytes of gigabytes
and we don't want to load the entire
text file to the browser to preview it
in
in a web ui so now we fetch only the
first block
which is uh 256 kilobytes i believe
and then you have this option to either
load more
or download entire thing so if you you
initially
download then you download it and save
it to the disk you can also
load the next block and it will
uh load the next block and you can
resume
uh and do that until you read the entire
file
uh so that's the main improvement uh the
the key
and the key idea here is to avoid
loading too much into the browser
we don't want to the great performance
if people are running web ui on all the
raspberry pi's and other environments
um
sorry you can drag and drop the images
as well now and
uh json text will not be oh right yeah
yeah so
this is a yet another thing so like the
drag and drop works before
you can like drag to pads
go to pets and then
the file is here right and you can drag
like this
the improvement now is that you can i
believe
drag this image right
yes into like pets and it
it works yeah so that's also cool so
like a bunch of
small nebula which make it more
intuitive to work
with stuff um
[Music]
i guess that's the highlight uh for this
uh
there is an upcoming improvement for the
way
http gateways uh present directories
in html form uh so um
maybe i will
maybe i'll just kind of like show this
is a
directory listing for our this ipfs io
website which has a dns link
uh it's loaded from a local gateway but
if you
use dns link the address would look like
this
without the gateway suffix so
the improvements which we landed
previously were the breadcrumbs
and the cid column and upcoming fixes
are that those breadcrumbs will work
even if you use dns link so even if you
have the
root at the url root those links will
work fine and the cid column
uh in the past it just pointed at the
row
row cid now it will have a file name
preserved so if you download it the file
name
will be previewed in save as dialog in
your system
and if you are displaying this screen
on dns link website which
probably does not have a public gateway
mounted
if you are using your own domain you
generally don't want to have
people being able to load arbitrary
content
under your own origin so in that context
we kind of changed the behavior of cid
column
instead of pointing at the public
gateway we did not want to
favoritize uh some one canonical
gateways
uh a gateway we decided to point at cid
ipfs io
uh utility which explains the meaning
behind cid
uh so that's an ux improvement
on this front and the third item which
oh it's also mine so i can probably show
it as well
and we we did we did a overhaul
of how ipfs desktops ci and cd
works and long story short is that we've
switched to github actions for both mac
os
and windows and linux builds
and now there's a single ci pipeline
which
uh builds uh artifacts for every
or every push and every pr and
when it's a release it also attaches
those
uh build and signed and notarized in the
case of
apple packages
to github release so
maybe as an illustration
if we want to see the latest build for
the master
branch you can see
it run for first it runs tests
against mac linux and windows and if
tests
pass then it and only then
it will build the packages because
that's expensive
and here everything is green so packages
were built
and after successful build packages are
attached
to the job so it's pretty useful for
testing we are no longer you
we no longer need to check out the
the branch and build locally we
have a built for a specific commit
attached to the uh
github action that was responsible for
testing and building stuff
those are zip files that's the
limitation of github
it zips all the artifacts so even if i
uh created a zip per file it would still
be
zipped so it's a single zip for windows
for linux and for mac os for now
but it's pretty useful to be able to a
quickly
test uh installation package for a comet
we sign them for master
and for our internal branches
branches builds created from forks
they still build stuff and they still
create artifacts but those artifacts are
not signed
so that's uh something to be aware if
there's an error like a mac security
error or a windows error
when you test a pr from a contributor
that means
it's fine it's just like we don't expose
secrets
uh for uh builds that were triggered by
people other than internal collaborators
so i think that's a pretty good
trade-off between what we had before
and what we have uh what we want to have
uh with uh like
with addressing the security concern of
signing a code that we did not approve
so uh the value here the main value here
is that we see if a build breaks
we are able to detect let's say windows
problems
sooner than on the release date in the
past
the final build happened only when we
tagged the release and the build run for
a tag now we effectively do the entire
pipeline
on every comet so i think that will
remove surprises and if there are any
surprises
we will have an early warning system
i think that's it on my end
it's pretty exciting that we removed
dependency of
external uh ci providers and now
like at least we are relying on github
which is like
one external company instead of four
which is pretty pretty pretty good uh
security wise
i plan to do similar thing for companion
this quarter
we'll see how it goes
later this week we should be releasing
ipfs desktop
0.13 with go ipfs
0.7 and the new web ui which has a
fix that was not present in in the
latest release but we'll also release
that later this week
it's improved file import feedback which
also has a
bug fix but i'm mostly excited about
file import feedback i know that
directly shared
the video but maybe that video is for
the progress bar
yeah so i think
i got a copy here so maybe i'll share my
screen again and
go over it maybe easier
all right so let's say
i want to import a folder of
insane cuts i totally have this prepared
so i want to
import it and you can see i had this
short spinner here which told me that
something's happening
and it was bothering me before because
my like
i have a very slow laptop and it takes
time
for importing even smaller files and
nothing happened and now something
happens
uh and after things happens we see that
we've imported one item i believe
that's more or less it there was a bug
when
uh instead of a number here we had uh
and not a number error uh which will
which blocked a iqs desktop release but
that will land this week
so i'm pretty excited on that and
i believe the web ui which i was showing
you
all this time already has this fixed by
jessica
to accommodate smaller viewports
and on the status yeah we got the
version yeah there's an easter egg
that is thanks to contributor bertrand
you cannot blame me
for wanting to uh he raised both the
issues and pr and an initial fix to
include the ui version
it's also in not only in the status
screen if you
look at the very bottom of the left nav
it's there as well
oh that's super cool thanks for that
contribution better
oh awesome all right
see that's what i get for having a
working copy of
what do i i need to demo all this stuff
all right folks um that's the
stuff i had on the agenda are there any
topics you want to
bring up perhaps
or it's just top secret that we need to
discuss after
i ended this recording right it's just
top secret stuff
okay proceed to the top secret all right
folks
uh i was hoping
we will demo it fast desktop but we got
derailed
and it happened probably later today but
that means
i will demo that in two weeks so this
week's one
it was pretty short but stay tuned
see you in two weeks